readme.md, before:

# vbb-shapes

**Shapes of lines of the [Berlin Brandenburg public transport service (VBB)](http://www.vbb.de/)**, computed from [open](https://daten.berlin.de/datensaetze/vbb-fahrplandaten-gtfs) [GTFS](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/) [data](https://vbb-gtfs.jannisr.de/).

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vbb-shapes.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vbb-shapes)
[![build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/derhuerst/vbb-shapes.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/derhuerst/vbb-shapes)
![ISC-licensed](https://img.shields.io/github/license/derhuerst/vbb-shapes.svg)
[![gitter channel](https://badges.gitter.im/derhuerst/vbb-rest.svg)](https://gitter.im/derhuerst/vbb-rest)
[![support me on Patreon](https://img.shields.io/badge/support%20me-on%20patreon-fa7664.svg)](https://patreon.com/derhuerst)


## Installing

*Warning:* This module contains JSON files with a **total size of roughly 60mb**.

```shell
npm install vbb-shapes
```


## Usage

Let's assume you read trips from [`vbb-trips`](https://github.com/derhuerst/vbb-trips). Each trip has a `shapeId` associated.

```js
const shapes = require('vbb-shapes')

shapes('1269')
.then(console.log)
```

```js
[
	[52.48607, 13.4245],
	[52.48756, 13.42648],
	// …
	[52.5135, 13.52988],
	[52.51373, 13.52003]
]
```

You can also read all shapes from a [readable stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_readable) in [object mode](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_object_mode), emitting one shape (as shown above) at once.

```js
const allShapes = require('vbb-shapes/all')

allShapes()
.on('data', console.log)
.on('error', console.error)
```

### GeoJSON encoded result

By adding the optional param `formatAsLineString = true` you'll receive a GeoJSON encoded result set.

```js
const shapes = require('vbb-shapes')

shapes('1269', true)
.then(console.log)
```

```js
{
    "type": "FeatureCollection",
    "features": [
        {
            "type": "Feature",
            "geometry": {
                "type": "LineString",
                "coordinates": [
                    [13.4245, 52.48607],
                    [13.42648, 52.48756],
                    // …
                    [13.52988, 52.5135],
                    [13.52003, 52.51373]
                ]
            },
            "properties": {}
        }
    ]
}
```

For all shapes:

```js
const allShapes = require('vbb-shapes/all')

allShapes(true)
.on('data', console.log)
.on('error', console.error)
```

## Contributing

If you **have a question**, **found a bug** or want to **propose a feature**, have a look at [the issues page](https://github.com/derhuerst/vbb-shapes/issues).

Commit message:

rebuild with 2022-11-25 data; readme: update badges 📝; 3.3.0

readme.md, after:

# vbb-shapes

**Shapes of lines of the [Berlin Brandenburg public transport service (VBB)](http://www.vbb.de/)**, computed from [open](https://daten.berlin.de/datensaetze/vbb-fahrplandaten-gtfs) [GTFS](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/) [data](https://vbb-gtfs.jannisr.de/).

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vbb-shapes.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vbb-shapes)
[![build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/derhuerst/vbb-shapes.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/derhuerst/vbb-shapes)
![ISC-licensed](https://img.shields.io/github/license/derhuerst/vbb-shapes.svg)
[![support me via GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/badge/support%20me-donate-fa7664.svg)](https://github.com/sponsors/derhuerst)
[![chat with me on Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat%20with%20me-on%20Twitter-1da1f2.svg)](https://twitter.com/derhuerst)


## Installing

*Warning:* This module contains JSON files with a **total size of roughly 60mb**.

```shell
npm install vbb-shapes
```


## Usage

Let's assume you read trips from [`vbb-trips`](https://github.com/derhuerst/vbb-trips). Each trip has a `shapeId` associated.

```js
const shapes = require('vbb-shapes')

shapes('1269')
.then(console.log)
```

```js
[
	[52.48607, 13.4245],
	[52.48756, 13.42648],
	// …
	[52.5135, 13.52988],
	[52.51373, 13.52003]
]
```

You can also read all shapes from a [readable stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_readable) in [object mode](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_object_mode), emitting one shape (as shown above) at once.

```js
const allShapes = require('vbb-shapes/all')

allShapes()
.on('data', console.log)
.on('error', console.error)
```

### GeoJSON encoded result

By adding the optional param `formatAsLineString = true` you'll receive a GeoJSON encoded result set.

```js
const shapes = require('vbb-shapes')

shapes('1269', true)
.then(console.log)
```

```js
{
    "type": "FeatureCollection",
    "features": [
        {
            "type": "Feature",
            "geometry": {
                "type": "LineString",
                "coordinates": [
                    [13.4245, 52.48607],
                    [13.42648, 52.48756],
                    // …
                    [13.52988, 52.5135],
                    [13.52003, 52.51373]
                ]
            },
            "properties": {}
        }
    ]
}
```

For all shapes:

```js
const allShapes = require('vbb-shapes/all')

allShapes(true)
.on('data', console.log)
.on('error', console.error)
```

## Contributing

If you **have a question**, **found a bug** or want to **propose a feature**, have a look at [the issues page](https://github.com/derhuerst/vbb-shapes/issues).
